# Ensemble_Kalman_Inversion

Research has suggested that both leaf and soil respiration showed diel variations. Several processes influenced this diel variation, like the light inhibition of respiration and the substrate availability limitation. These research results highlight the importance to explore the diel variation of ecosystem respiration. Eddy covariance serves as a good way to measure the net CO<sub>2</sub> exchange between the ecosystem and atmosphere. Therefore, we tried to use CO<sub>2</sub> flux data NEE to understand the ecosystem respiration. We used the CO<sub>2</sub> flux partitioning model proposed by lasslop et al., 2010, which consist of the Mechaelis-Menten and Lloyd & Taylor equations, to model the NEE observation, and by parameterized it with time-varying parameters to understand the variation of the response of ecosystem respiration to temperature. On the daily scale, this variation in the ecosystem respiration temperature response, e.g., the basal respiration rate, may be attributed to factors other than temperature. To obtain high time resolution parameter estimates, we used EnKF to estimate the parameters. We put both the parameters of the model(i.e., alpha, beta0, Rref, E0) and the observation variable NEE into the state vector (i.e., [alpha, beta<sub>0</sub>$,R<sub>ref</sub>, E<sub>0</sub>, NEE]) of the EnKF, and created an artificial dynamical system by assuming that the parameters at current time equal the averages of updated parameters for previous a few hours. Then the observation operator H becomes [0, I].
